***The Fundamentals of Teaching Computer Studies***


Computer studies educators should have a passion for computer science and a deep desire to work with children. They should be a role model that provides inspiration for their students. Teachers should embody the content and deliver it in a way that is authentic and true to themselves. I really enjoy comedy and I incorporate it into my teaching. The use of humor to disarm topics and a self-effacing approach towards content delivery promotes an environment that encourages learners to engage with the material and be excited about acquiring this new knowledge. I mostly teach through the Socratic method by engaging students in open dialogues that help address prior held knowledge and its relationship to topic of discussion. As a teacher I am naturally comedic, I incorporate humor that is dry and timely in nature and connected to the content. Students typically respond well, and we both use it as a vehicle to engage with the material. I feel I am being true to myself using this approach. Students typically see me as excited about what I am teaching, currently chemistry, and invested in their success. I believe students will flourish and feel they are in a safe environment if they witness their teacher as being authentic in their content delivery that honors who they are as a person. I believe you need to be extremely prepared for this approach to work. I have written extensive course notes for the students that provide a framework for the units of study that we will cover and I work to animate the material through my delivery.

In order to ensure student success, at the start of a unit of study, the teacher should define the success criteria. Students need to have this criteria clearly delineated so they know what is expected of them in terms of assessment and evaluation. All the products that are created during formative and summative assessments should have clear expectations in the form of rubrics, marking schemes, and supported by provided exemplars. Students need to be provided with ongoing authentic feedback that informs and improves future learning (Growing Success, 2010). Also, the learning environment is central to improving student learning. The teacher should create safe spaces where it is encouraged for students to explore and make mistakes in their learning journey. The environment needs to foster risk taking so the student feels comfortable working in the zone of proximal development. While working in the zone, teachers should support student learning through ongoing authentic feedback. Trust and rapport building needs to be established for students to feel comfortable while being stretched beyond their existing schema and acquiring new knowledge. Teachers need to foster a constructivist approach to student learning as they acquire this new knowledge in the student’s zone of proximal development (Berk & Winsler, 1995). It is easy for teachers to just give the correct answer, but students need to build their own knowledge so that it will become internalized and become foundation to extending their existing schema. In following Jean Piaget’s theory of cognitive development, teachers will help the student construct a mental model of understanding. This model will be integral to help students navigate future situations similar to those created in the classroom. In high school, students will be in the formal operational stage of development and during this stage they will need to learn how to deal with abstractions (Piaget, 1971). For example, in computer studies, students may find data structures and algorithms difficult to learn due to the high level of abstraction that they can entail. Encouraging growth in this stage of development is central, as students become more autonomous in their own learning. Projects that involve code snippets that involve creating functions, using data structures or creating classes and objects can help students become more comfortable with abstraction.

Students should also be aware of the type of post-secondary programming available in Ontario in the technology sector. A presentation on “careers in tech” project could help students do research on the educational requirements, working conditions, projects, and salaries that are available in the sector. This could provide students with some insight into the possibility of working with technology as a career (Sterling, 2003). Also, having students interview a technology worker and write a research paper on their findings could become a source of inspiration and can help promote a better understanding of the technology environment in Ontario and Canada.


**Works Citied**

Berk, L & Winsler, A. (1995). Vygotsky also felt that social interaction was very important when it came to learning. "Vygotsky: His life and works" and "Vygotsky's approach to development". In Scaffolding children's learning: Vygotsky and early childhood learning. Natl. Assoc for Educ. Of Young Children. p. 24

Ontario Ministry of Education. (2010). Growing success: Assessment, evaluation and reporting in Ontario's schools: covering grades 1 to 12. Toronto: Ministry of Education.

Piaget, J. (1971). The theory of stages in cognitive development. In D. R. Green, M. P. Ford, & G. B. Flamer, Measurement and Piaget (p. 1-11). McGraw-Hill.

Sterling, G. D. (2003). Faculty and industry conceptions of successful computer programmers. Journal of Information Systems Education, 14(4), 417-424. ProQuest Document ID: 200069235